## Moses' Make Change Project
This is my week 1 homework Project

I am learning how to utilize Java expressions.

(Note to self: Fill out this README.markdown file as a blog, talking through what i do for MakeChange.)

The modulo operator is awesome!

Basically, in this MakeChange Project, I utilized a method outside of a class to Validate whether or not the user followed the prompt, and if the amount tendered doesn't make sense, I prompted the user again until conditions (moneyparse is greater than priceparse) were finally met. I will go over this method.

First, I prompted the user to enter the price of item and then the amount tendered by customer. After all this initial info was entered, I called upon the Method, which I appropriately labelled "checkRightPrice." In this method, I basically did two things: validate whether or not the user's prompted numbers meet the conditions and/or make sense and Calculate the amount of change that is due back to customer, based on largest bill and coin denomination possible.

In lines 12 and 15, I looked up ways to be more precise than what doubles can get. Searching on Google, I found that Java has a built-in method called parseDouble, which returns a new Double variable that has been initialized to the value represented by the specified String. In line 15, within the parseDouble method, I searched and found a way to truncate a user's prompted info to two numbers after the decimals (to the hundredths spot, just as currency is described in everyday America). I borrowed from the Java class "DecimalFormat," which already has a built-in feature to format decimal numbers into the way you want them. I used ("##.##") to truncate the customer's amount of money tendered down to 2 decimal places.

I pretty much used a public static boolean method to solve this project.  The Boolean was whether or not the user entered a number greater than the item's price, for amount tendered. If not, I used an 'input protection loop' which we learned in Exercise 28 in the PRE-work. I checked to see if the user entered the right info; otherwise, I displayed an error message. Then, if user followed the instructions correctly and entered a higher Amount Tendered than Price, I moved forward with the program code.  I inserted a while-loop within an if-statement because of my simple thinking. I thought that as long as the user's prompt was valid, then within that if-statement parameter, I could add a while loop with all the statements with all the dollar and coin denominations. I picked the largest ($10 bill) first and the smalled (penny) last because the project tasked me to return change to the user in largest piece of currency first. (Side note: This all could be-reorganized, if the homework was to return change in smallest denominations first.) 

	Although it is my initial project in this course, my goal was to keep it to under 100 lines of code in order to be as neat and optimized and non-repetitive as possible. I just missed by a few lines (8 lines). I added the variables a - g and also y to shorten the arithmetic and make the code shorter. I also did the largest denomination first in my while loop, and for each if statement of denominations, I first divided the (difference between Amount tendered and item price) by the denomination (10, five, one, quarters, etc.). Also, I Assigned y as the remainder of y and the current denomination inside the if-statement.   This will give me the number of five-dollar bills remaining, the number of ones remaining, the number of quarters remaining, the number of dimes remaining, the number of nickels remaining, and the number of pennies remaining (..in that order).Then, I changed the double to an integer, not for arithmetic but purely for output purposes (to make output neater sans decimals and long endings like 1.222333). In line 94, after much trial and error, I looked up how to use Java's built-in 'Math.round' function because I kept getting weird numbers for pennies whenever I tested out my code ....and finally, I closed the Scanner input and, just for kicks, printed out the array that i used for labeling each denomination in the output.     

